---
tags:
  - chapter
type: devices_filesystem_fha
weight: "3"
---

2024-09-20 15:50
Status:
Tags:
___
# 104.3 Control mounting and unmounting of filesystems


**Key knowledge areas:**
- Manually mount and unmount filesystems.
- Configure filesystem mounting on bootup.
- Configure user mountable removable filesystems.
- Use of labels and UUIDs for identifying and mounting file systems.
- Awareness of [[Systemd Mount units|systemd mount units]].

**Partial list of the used files, terms, and utilities:**
- [[fstab]]
- [[media folder| /media/]]
- [[mount]]
- [[umount]]
- `blkid`
- [[lsblk]]
- [[lsof]]

# Exercises
> [!faq]- Using `mount`, how can you mount an `ext4` filesystem on `/dev/sdc1` to `/mnt/external` as read-only, using the `noatime` and `async` options?
> > mount -t ext4 -o noatime,async,ro /dev/sdc1 /mnt/external**

> [!faq]- When unmounting a filesystem at `/dev/sdd2`, you get the `target is busy` error message. How can you find out which files on the filesystem are open, and what processes opened them?
> > lsof /dev/sdd2

> [!faq]- Consider the following entry in `/etc/fstab`: `/dev/sdb1 /data ext4 noatime,noauto,async`. Will this filesystem be mounted if the command `mount -a` is issued? Why?
> > The /dev/sdb1 will not be mounted couse noauto option is enable and this option prevents it.

> [!faq]- How can you find out the UUID of a filesystem under `/dev/sdb1`?
> > lsblk -f /dev/sdb1

> [!faq]- How can you use `mount` to remount as read-only an exFAT filesystem with the UUID `6e2c12e3-472d-4bac-a257-c49ac07f3761`, mounted at `/mnt/data`?
> > mounts -o remount, ro /mnt/data

> [!faq]- How can you get a list of all `ext3` and `ntfs` filesystems currently mounted on a system?
> > mount -t ext3, ntfs 

___
## References
[[LPIC-1 Exam 101.pdf#page=]]